https://sentinels.copernicus.eu/web/sentinel/technical-guides/sentinel-1-sar/products-algorithms/level-1-algorithms/topsar-processing

TOPSAR Processing

The Terrain Observation with Progressive Scans SAR (TOPSAR) technique
is a form of ScanSAR imaging, where data is acquired in bursts by
cyclically switching the antenna beam between multiple adjacent
sub-swaths. TOPSAR acquisitions can provide large swath widths and
enhanced radiometric performance by reducing the scalloping
effect. TOPSAR is used in SENTINEL-1's Interferometric Wide swath and
Extra Wide swath modes.

 

With the TOPSAR technique, in addition to steering the beam in range
as in ScanSAR, the beam is also electronically steered from backward
to forward in the azimuth direction for each burst, avoiding
scalloping and resulting in homogeneous image quality throughout the
swath. [1]

 

TOPSAR mode is intended to replace the conventional ScanSAR mode,
achieving the same coverage and resolution as ScanSAR, but with a
nearly uniform Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) and Distributed Target
Ambiguity Ratio (DTAR).

 
Azimuth resolution is reduced compared to SM due to the shorter target
illumination time of the burst. Using the sweeping azimuth pattern,
each target is seen under the same antenna pattern, independently from
its azimuth position in the burst image. By shrinking the azimuth
antenna pattern, as seen by a target on the ground, scalloping effects
on the image can be reduced. Bursts are synchronised from pass to pass
to ensure the alignment of interferometric pairs.


For TOPSAR, the processing must handle the antenna steering rate and
the DC rate due to the steering. The azimuth pre and post-processing
of the data must include de-ramping of the data prior to base-band DC
estimation, azimuth ambiguity estimation and GRD azimuth
processing. Please see the technical note COPE-GSEG-EOPG-TN-14-0025
for details on how deramping is performed by the IPF.
